This is Vicki speaking from Holy Trinity Church, Llandudno, collecting memories at the Longest Yarn.
I have Neil with me who is going to share stories about his great-uncle, Harry.
Thank you, Neil. Perhaps I can just say thank you for speaking to me. That's lovely today.
So, if you'd like to share your memories of your great-uncle Harry.
So, he fought with the South Staffs, South Staffordshire Regiment in North Africa.
So, fighting against Rommel in the desert.
After they'd fought through North Africa, they fought up through Italy.
So, landed on Sicily, I think they did first.
And then they went on to the mainland and fought their way up through Italy.
And it was at Montecassino.
And did he survive all this?
He did, yeah. He died in his, I think he was about 88 when he died. So, he did alright.
And did he share his memories with his family?
A little bit, yeah. I remember him talking about Montecassino, saying that they all had to wear orange bibs on their backpacks
because the Americans were strafing them out and so to identify, which they still do today.
They did it in the Gulf War. They had markings on the tanks.
To avoid friendly fire?
Yeah, friendly fire, blue on blue.
So, yeah, they all wore orange tabards on their backpacks.
He said it didn't help much.
There was some friendly fire?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Towards the end of the war, he was in a guard in a prisoner of war cap.
And I remember him talking about an SS officer who said nobody liked him, not even the Germans.
And he said, oh, we've got a saying in the Wehrmacht where it says, if the RAF gap come across, then we get down.
And if the Luftwaffe come across, you get down. And if the Americans come across, everybody gets down.
Which I thought was quite amusing.
It's amazing, isn't it?
It still happens today.
So he came back home and he survived and he lived to a ripe old age, you say?
I think he was 88, I think.
That's amazing. Oh, thank you.
He was good fun.
Yeah, he was. Well, that's good because some of them came back and buried their memories, didn't they?
They did.
I've got another great uncle.
He was a great uncle.
He was born in Hereford, Victor Pugh, and he served in the RAF.
These memories about his other great uncle were too difficult for Neil to continue, so we'll finish the interview.